source/_drafts/switching-google.md, before:

---
title: Switching from Google
date: 2017-12-11 21:47:52
tags:
---

# A use case for the value of our data

Privacy, how much do we really value it? It seems as time goes by the internet nibbles away certain parts of it. This ability to establish certain boundaries as individuals with the people that sorround us has become somewhat of a complex dilemma. There is a compromise we (implicitly) agree to upon once we decide to use services on the web. This is specially true on the part of free services, like Google, Twitter, Facebook, Microsoft, to name a few. In the past, Apple has made headlines in their ongoing legal fight between our data and the ability for third parties to utilize it ([Like this](https://www.digitaltrends.com/mobile/apple-encryption-court-order-news/)). Apple has an incentive to fight though, being a hardware company first, their capital is derived from other tangible products.

This brings me specifically to the case of Google. As a service, they provide wonderful tools, insight and the ability to connect with those that sorrounds us, but if we are not careful, strangers too. They bring behaviors and patterns over the conglomerate of my data, as recollected by them. This is done with the consideration that the corporation will offer me some benefit that would otherwise require an extraordinary effort from my part, but also providing this data to the corporation. This is pretty much true of all their products. A simple use case would be YouTube. I see relevant videos from the sources i keep consuming (History, Music, Tech, etc...), specially from sources that i wouldnt possibly be able to get to know, while being thousands of miles away. This provides certain instrumental value for the fact that i give up certain information to use the site.

After considering all this with regards to Google the search engine, ive been sporadically favoring trying out DuckDuckGo for the past year. Comparing the results from one system to the other, in terms of the advantage sticking with Google brings. After 2 years, i feel ready to make the transition, while feeling certain that the benefits i will lose with using Google Search Engine, could be mitigated. 

## Ways to slowly move away from while using Chrome

By default Chrome uses google, of course, A simple remap of the default values of Chrome will suffice. The search engine edit bars just require some simple remaps. In my current setup writing google foobar would correspondingly Google the topic. I Simply remapped to search using duck duck. The major problem was with the lookup of pages and of past searches. I constantly use Instapaper to keep the articles that im interested. And of course chrome keeps my history per user.

## Enter Firefox Quantum

Its been thoroughly hard for me to stop using Chrome perse in my daily routine mainly because of 3 things:

* Customizable Search engine bar
* Ram usage and overall performance
* Dev Tools

For the past 5-6 years i've evolved in my day to day usage and productivity has been steadily increasing, specially in terms of quick glances at specific sites i frequent (mainly, StackOverflow, HackerNews, Feedly...) 

I specifically remember switching from Firefox to Chrome because i felt the my productivity was way higher the moment i started using Chrome. The key example being that i used to Google everything and i felt my research and flexibility with chrome was way higher.

Commit message:

Revision 3 draft of post of switching google. Just conclusion needed.

source/_drafts/switching-google.md, after:

---
title: Switching from Google
date: 2017-12-11 21:47:52
tags:
---

# An use case for our data

Privacy, how do we measure its value? It seems as time goes by the internet nibbles away certain parts of it. This ability to establish clear boundaries as individuals with the people that sorround us has become somewhat of a complex and shallow dilemma. There is a compromise we (implicitly) agree upon once we decide to use services on the web, it is mostly given. This is specially true on the part of free services, like Google, Twitter, Facebook, Microsoft, to name a few of the more familiar ones. I also point out specifically Apple, who has made, in the past, headlines in their ongoing legal fight between our data and the ability for third parties to utilize it ([Exhibit A](https://www.digitaltrends.com/mobile/apple-encryption-court-order-news/)). Apple as a corporation has an incentive to fight through, being a hardware company first; their capital is derived from other tangible products.

This brings me specifically to the case of Google. As a service, they provide wonderful tools, insight and potential to connect with those that sorrounds us, in more meaningful ways. But if we are not careful, strangers too can tap this wealth of information. Google, as a service, brings unique behaviors and patterns over the conglomerate of my data as collected by them. This is done with the consideration that the corporation will offer *me* a benefit that would otherwise require an extraordinary effort from my part, but also providing this data to the corporation. This is pretty much true of all their products and/or services. A trivial use case would be YouTube. I see relevant videos from the sources i keep consuming (History, Music, Tech, etc...), from sources that i wouldnt possibly be able to get to know while being thousands of miles away. This provides tangible value to the fact that i give up certain information to use the site.

After considering all this with regards to Google the search engine, ive been sporadically favoring using DuckDuckGo for the past years. Comparing the results from one system to the other, in terms of the advantage sticking with Google brings. After 2 years A/B Testing and comparing and contrasting the results, i feel ready to make the transition, while acknowledging the benefits that i will lose with using Google Search Engine, and that those could be mitigated. This can be substantially seen on searches of breaking news. My guess is that Google's crawler is way faster and potent, it is after all a gigantic corporation with billions of dollars at their disposal, for this their flagship product.

## Ways to slowly move away from while using Chrome

By default Chrome uses google, of course, A simple remap of the default values of Chrome will suffice. The search engine edit bars just require some simple keybindings that could be done in minutes. In my current setup writing google foobar would correspondingly Google that topic. Therefore, only providing a redefinition to search using duck duck go, did the trick. The major problem was with the lookup of pages and of past searches. I constantly use Instapaper to keep the articles that im interested. And of course chrome keeps my history per user.

## Enter Firefox Quantum

It has been a great challenge for me to stop using Google Chrome in my daily routine mainly because of 3 things:

* Customizable Search engine bar
* Ram usage and overall performance
* Chrome Dev Tools

But i got to say, with the addition of the whole CSS Grid, Firefox has been gaining a huge chunk of my attention. I still need a bit of getting used to, specially on the unified searching bar, but the right direction has been taken by Mozilla, at least for me as a user.

For the specific sites i frequent (mainly, StackOverflow, HackerNews, Feedly...) Firefox has me covered, and since those are mostly portal for more articles and information, i dont see the need to keep searching places since content arrives on their end.
